.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH mz.cfg 1 "March 7, 2010"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
mz \- a fast versatile packet generator
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B /etc/mausezahn/mz.cfg
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invode bold face and italics, 
.\" respectively.
\fBMausezahn\fP is a free fast traffic generator written in C which allows 
you to send nearly every possible and impossible packet. Mausezahn's MOPS
subsystem (Mausezahn's Own Packet System) supports an interactive mode with
a Cisco-style command line interface (CLI). In order to activate this
interactive mode, execute Mausezahn using the \fI-x\fP argument, optionally
followed by an arbitrary TCP port number, such as
.PP
# mz \-x 99
.PP
in which case you can connect to Mausezahn via
.PP
$ telnet 127.0.0.1 99
.PP
If no port number is specified, Mausezahn uses the default port number 25542
(which is the date of towel day followed by the answer to the universe and 
everything; however, you don't need to understand this in order to continue).
.PP
Login credentials as well as other
MOPS-related parameters can be specified in the Mausezahn configuration file
\fImz.cfg\fP located in \f/etc/mausezahn\fP. Currently, user-specific 
configuration files are not supported.
.PP
If no configuration file is present Mausezahn assumes the following default login
credentials:
.TP
.PP
username: mz
.br
password: mz
.br
enable password: mops
.PP

Currently only login credentials can be configured within the configuration
file. Here is an example content of \fI/etc/mausezahn/mz.cfg\fP:
.TP
.PP
user = herbert
.br
password = moTTe
.br
enable = T0p5ecreT
.PP
Additional configuration options will be officially supported with the next
releases.
.SH FILES
\fI/etc/mausezahn/mz.cfg\fP
.SH SEE ALSO
 \fBmz(1)\fP
.SH AUTHOR
Herbert Haas. 
.PP
Visit www.perihel.at/sec/mz/ for Mausezahn news and additional information.
.PP
This manual page was written by Herbert Haas <herbert AT perihel DOT at>,
for the Debian project.
